---
layout: post
title:  "Fiction"
date:   2026-01-12
tags: creative-writing-101
---
Chris began to question the wisdom of this trip. Not for the first time, to be
sure. He tossed and turned in his sleep. At the airport, looking at himself in a
bathroom mirror, he began to question again. In the pale light he looked at the
lines on his face. Bags under his eyes, graying hair. Overweight. Perhaps not
unreasonably so, all things considered, but still. A body weighed down by time.

Somewhere along the way his life went off track. It wasn't anything too
dramatic. More like a car gently drifting off the side of a lonely country road.
Chris, asleep at the wheel. Foot slipping off the pedal, coming to a rest in an
empty field. He could still see it sometimes, what his parents never seemed to
lose sight of. The little boy with big dreams. Or at least dreams. Of writing.
It stirred such a feeling in him. It was as if he could see himself, see their
hopes for him through their eyes. He could hardly bear it.

Back at the gate, Chris opened his phone. There it was. The message that was his
reason for making this trip home. He couldn't believe it, really. Since he found
her online he had longed to reach out, but inhibition and doubt came in the way.
Then one day a couple weeks ago he saw the post: she was looking for book
donations for her English classroom. He filled out the form to send one, signed:
from an old classmate.

Schooldays. There are certain scenes his memory clings to. Blurred at the edges,
maybe. But not gone. September. The warmth of the falling sun, the refreshing
cool of the crisp, early autumn air. Chris, on the tennis courts. Surrounded by
the marching band practice, whistles and the clash of football helmets. He sees
the cross-country runners and catches her eyes. A gym shirt, blue shorts, white
and blue shoes.

In the orchestra practice room, during those first weeks of high school. Both of
them preparing for the blind auditions. A quiet smile. Chris, out for pizza with
his parents, while everyone else was at the homecoming dance. He spots her there
too. Another moment of eye contact, another shy smile and turn to her friends.
Fragments. But enough to carry the torch.

Incredibly, in thirty years Chris couldn't think of a time he had an actual
conversation with Clarissa. That is until a message popped into his phone a
couple weeks ago thanking him for the book. An easy, comfortable back and forth
followed. It culminated in her saying, let me know if you're ever in town.

And so Chris arrived at this precipice. He was apparently and all of a sudden
living out the start of one of those stories he always told himself he'd get
around to writing one day. He had imagined endings, and clung to certain images,
for a long time. But with one more glance at his phone, he saw Clarissa's face
again, as it was today. He lingered on her eyes. The blurred edges faded. Chris,
his own face loosened, swiped back to his boarding pass, and stepped forward. He
turned his phone over, and waited for the beep.
